When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?

You might want to do that if you were working in a team, which required access to the same repository regardless of where they were, or for something like an open source project where it helps you share that content with the public.

Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

In case you're working on something distinct from the main version. You may want to change something and then push back to the remote. If git kept pulling automatically, it would reverse all the work that you'd done, or present you with unwanted conflicts.

Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?

A fork is a clone on github of another repository (usually somebody else's). You'd use a fork to build off someone else's work when you don't have permission to add to edit the contents, while at the same time referencing their original work.

A clone is a copy of a repository made from one place to another, you'd use a clone to work on a repository that you have editing rights to in a different environment from the the one it's stored in.

A branch is a distinct offshoot that happens inside a single repo. You'd use a branch to work on a e.g. a feature that doesn't affect the core of the repo you're working on.

What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

It means you can work on the most up to date version without needing any internet access.

How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?

I have no idea how people really collaborated before this kind of system was adopted. You would have to be very careful about separating the areas which each person was working on, and keep in constant communication to avoid conflicts. This would of course imrpvoe team discipline and make sure that everyone worked on their own piece of code, however it would significantly reduce the actual amount of collaboration and slow down work.